Suggested changes to Docs restructuring (#50)
Lumi-supercomputer/lumi-userguide: docs/software/installing/easybuild.md

# EasyBuild

[Lmod_modules]: ../../computing/Lmod_modules.md
[softwarestacks]: ../../computing/softwarestacks.md
[helpdesk]: ../../generic/helpdesk.md
[lumi-g]: ../../computing/systems/lumig.md
[eap]: ../../eap/index.md

Most software in the central LUMI [software stacks][softwarestacks] is
installed through [EasyBuild](https://easybuild.io/). The central software
stack is kept as compact as possible to ease maintenance and to avoid user
confusion. E.g., packages for which users request special customisations will
never be installed in the central software stack. Moreover, due to the

> technical implementation of the software stack on a system the size of LUMI,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
technical implementation of a software stack on a system the size of LUMI,
```

Author: Accepted

> installing software can be disruptive so new software is mostly made available

Reviewer: ```suggestion
installing software can be disruptive, so new software is mostly made available
```

Author: Accepted

during maintenance intervals.

> This however does not mean that you may have to wait for weeks before you can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This, however, does not mean that you may have to wait for weeks before you can
```

Author: Accepted

> get the software you need for your project on LUMI. We made it very easy to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
get the software you need for your project on LUMI. We have made it very easy to
```

Author: Accepted

install additional software in your home or project directories (where the

> latter is the better choice as you can then share with the other people in your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
latter is a better choice as you can then share it with the other people in your
```

Author: Accepted

> project) and use that software. It requires not much more than loading a module

Reviewer: ```suggestion
project). After installing, using the software requires not much more than loading a module
```

Author: Accepted

that configures EasyBuild for local installations and running EasyBuild with a
few recipes that can be supplied by the [User Support Team][helpdesk] or your
national support team or that you may write yourself. And this software is then
built in exactly the same way as it would be in a central installation.

> 

Reviewer: Should it be added (rather/also) here, the information and link to available Easyconfigs?
E.g.

To see the currently available software installation recipes (EasyConfig files) on LUMI, please check the github repository for the available EasyConfig files [here](https://github.com/Lumi-supercomputer/LUMI-SoftwareStack/tree/main/easybuild/easyconfigs)

Author: I think that it is fine to have the full list of links to recipe repos towards the end of the page.

*Before continuing to read this page, make sure you are familiar with the
[setup of the software stacks on LUMI][softwarestacks] and somewhat familiar
with [the Lmod module environment][Lmod_modules].*

## Beginner's guide to installing software on LUMI

We support installing software with EasyBuild only in the LUMI software stacks,
not in CrayEnv.

By default our EasyBuild setup will install software in `$HOME/EasyBuild`.
However, this location can be changed by pointing the environment variable
`EBU_USER_PREFIX` to the directory where you want to create the software
installation. In most cases a subdirectory in your `/project/project_*`
directory is the best location to install software as that directory is both
permanent for the duration of your project and shared with all users in your
project so that everybody can use the software. It is a very good idea to set
this environment variable in your `.profile` or `.bashrc`file, e.g.

```bash
export EBU_USER_PREFIX=/project/project_465000000/EasyBuild
```

??? Tip "Tip for users with multiple projects"
    If you participate in multiple projects, you'll have to either have only

>     a very personal software setup in your home directory which noone else can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    a very personal software setup in your home directory which no one else can
```

Author: Accepted

>     use, or a setup in each of the project directories as sharing of project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    use, or a setup in each of the project directories, as sharing of project
```

Author: Accepted

    a different setup by changing the value of the `EBU_USER_PREFIX`
    environment variable, but you should only do so when no modules are loaded,
    not even the `LUMI` module. Hence you should always do a

    ```bash
    $ module --force purge
    ```
    
    of at the very least
    
    ```bash
    $ module --force unload LUMI
    ```
    
    immediately before changing the value of `EBU_USER_PREFIX`. If you fail to
    do so, the old user module directories will not be removed from the module
    search path, not even if you reload the `LUMI` module, and you may get very
    unexpected results from module load operations.

From now on you will also see the software that you have installed yourself for
the selected version of the LUMI software stack and partition when you do
`module avail`. Also, `module spider` will also search those directories.

The second step is to ensure that the right version of the software stack is
loaded. Assume that we want to install software in the `LUMI/22.06` stack, then
one needs to execute

```bash
$ module load LUMI/22.06
```

This should also automatically load the right `partition module` for the part

> of LUMI you are on, as further detailed in [page on the software

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of LUMI you are on, as further detailed on the [software
```

Author: Accepted

> stacks][softwarestacks].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
stacks][softwarestacks] page.
```

Author: Accepted

??? Failure "Issue: Only partition/L and partition/C are currently fully supported"
    Note that in the initial versions of the software stack, only `partition/L`
    and `partition/C` are supported. The `partition/G` module is for all MI250X
    GPU nodes, whether in the regular [LUMI-G][lumi-g] partition or in the
    temporary [Early Access Platform][eap], and is only meant for users who
    install their own software and not supported by the
    [User Support Team][helpdesk] except for basic build tools until after
    the LUMI-G pilot phase.

Though it is technically possible to cross-compile software for a different
partition, it may not be without problems as not all install scripts that come
with software support cross-compiling and as tests may fail when compiling for
a CPU with instructions that the host CPU does not support.

The next step to install software in the directory you have just indicated, is
to load the `EasyBuild-user` module:

```bash
$ module load EasyBuild-user
```

> This will print a line on the screen indicating were software will be installed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will print a line on the screen indicating where software will be installed
```

Author: Accepted

as a confirmation. It will also create the directory structure for the user
software installation if it does not yet exist, including the structure of the
user repository discussed below in the ["Advanced
guide"](#advanced-guide-to-easybuild-on-lumi), section ["Building your own
EasyBuild repository"](#building-your-own-easybuild-repository). If you want
more information about the full configuration of EasyBuild, you can execute

```bash
$ eb --show-config
```

> Now an EasyBuild build recipe is a file with a name that consists of different

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, an EasyBuild build recipe is a file with a name that consists of different
```

Author: Accepted

> components. Consider, e.g., the build recipe

Reviewer: ```suggestion
components and ends with '.eb'. Consider, e.g., a build recipe for the software GROMACS
```

Author: Accepted

```text
GROMACS-2021.4-cpeGNU-22.06-PLUMED-2.7.4-CPU.eb
```

The first part of the name, `GROMACS`, is the name of the package. The second
part of the name, `2021.4` is the version of GROMACS, in this case the initial
2021 release. The next part, `cpeGNU-22.06`, denotes the so-called *toolchain*
used for the build. The `cpeGNU` toolchain uses the `PrgEnv-gnu` programming

> environment, the `cpeCray` toolchain the `PrgEnv-cray` PE, the `cpeAOCC`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
environment. The `cpeCray` toolchain would use the `PrgEnv-cray` programming environment, the `cpeAOCC`
```

Author: I'll keep the original wording

> toolchain the `PrgEnv-aocc` environment and the `cpeAMD` toolchain the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
toolchain the `PrgEnv-aocc` programming environment, and the `cpeAMD` toolchain the
```

Author: Accepted

`PrgEnv-amd` environment. The version of the toolchain should match the version
of the LUMI software stack or the installation will fail. (In fact, it is not
just the version in the file name that should match but the version of the
toolchain that is used in the recipe file.) The next part of the name,
`-PLUMED-2.7.4-CPU`, is called the version suffix. Version suffixes are
typically used to distinguish different builds of the same version of the
package. In this case, it indicates that it is a build of the 2021.4 version
purely for CPU and also includes PLUMED as we have also builds without PLUMED
(which is not compatible with every GROMACS version).

EasyBuild is configured so that it searches in the user repository and two
repositories on the system. The current directory is not part of the default

> search path but is easily added with a command line option. By default,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
search path but can be easily added with a command line option. By default,
```

Author: Accepted

> EasyBuild will not install dependencies of a package and fail instead if one or

Reviewer: Something to check about this and following lines...

Author: Do you have any suggestions for changes to these lines? I think the content is correct, though it probably could be presented in a more clear way.

Reviewer: Added a comma that I think was needed. You can check it the sentences make sense still (from my point of view the comma belongs to that place)

> EasyBuild will not install dependencies of a package and fail instead if one or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
EasyBuild will not install dependencies of a package and fail instead, if one or
```

Author: Accepted

the command line. If all needed EasyBuild recipes are in one of those
repository or in the current directory, all you need to do to install the
package is to run

```bash
$ eb -r . GROMACS-2021.4-cpeGNU-22.06-PLUMED-2.7.4-CPU.eb
```

The `-r` tells EasyBuild to also install dependencies that may not yet be
installed, and, with the dot added to it, to also add the current directory to
the front of the search path. The `-r .` or `-r` flags should be omitted if you
want full control and install dependency by dependency before installing the
package (which may be very useful if building right away fails).

If you now type `module avail` you should see the

```text
GROMACS/2021.4-cpeGNU-22.06-PLUMED-2.7.4-CPU
```

module in the list. Note the relation between the name of the EasyBuild recipe
and the module name and version of the module. This is only the case though if
the EasyBuild recipe follows the EasyBuild guidelines for naming. If the
guidelines are not followed and if EasyBuild needs to install this module as a
dependency of another package, EasyBuild will fail to locate the build recipe.

## Advanced guide to EasyBuild on LUMI

### Toolchains on Cray

> Toolchains in EasyBuild contains at least a compiler, but can also contains an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Toolchains in EasyBuild contain at least a compiler, but can also contain an
```

Author: Accepted
